[labs/ssr] Add global render and ElementRenderer plugin API (#1744)
Polymer/lit-html: packages/labs/ssr/README.md

# @lit-labs/ssr

> A server package for rendering Lit templates and components on the server.

Author: Updated

## Status

`@lit-labs/ssr` is pre-release software, not quite ready for public consumption. As we develop it we are using it as a test bed to ensure that new versions of `lit` (`lit-html` and `lit-element`) are SSR-ready. We expect that the foundational SSR support in this package will support a wide variety of use cases, from full-blown app rendering frameworks built on top of web components, to framework-specific plugins for rending custom elements in e.g. React or Angular, to pre-rendering plugins for static site generators like 11ty. Please stay tuned and file issues with use cases you'd like to see covered.

## Server Usage

> ### Rendering in the nodejs global scope

Author: Updated all

The easiest way to get started is to import your Lit template modules (and any `LitElement` definitions they may use) into the node global scope and render them to a stream (or string) using the `render(value: unknown): Iterable<string>` function provided by the `render-global.js` module. Since Lit-authored code may rely on DOM globals, the `render-global.js` module will install a minimal DOM shim into the nodejs global scope, which should be sufficient for typical use cases. As such, `render-global.js` should be imported before any modules containing Lit code.

```js
// Example: server.js:

import {render} from '@lit-labs/ssr/lib/render-global.js';
import {myTemplate} from './my-template.js';

//...

const ssrResult = render(myTemplate(data));
context.body = Readable.from(ssrResult);
```

> ### Sandboxed VM rendering

Author: 👍  Updated a bunch of places we called it sandbox to just "vm context" or "separate vm context", etc.

// Example: server.js:

import {renderModule} from 'lit-ssr/lib/render-module.js';

// Execute the above `renderTemplate` in a separate VM context with a minimal DOM shim
const ssrResult = await (renderModule(
  './render-template.js',  // Module to load in VM context
  import.meta.url,         // Referrer URL for module
  'renderTemplate',        // Function to call
  [{some: "data"}]         // Arguments to function
) as Promise<Iterable<unknown>>);

// ...

context.body = Readable.from(ssrResult);
```

## Client usage

### Hydrating lit templates

> In order to "hydrate" lit templates, which is the process of having lit re-associate the expressions of a lit template with which nodes they should update in the DOM, the `experimental-hydrate` module is provided in the `lit` package. Prior to updating a server-rendered container using `render`, you should first call `hydrate` on that container using the same template and data that was used to render on the server:

Reviewer: You might just want to split this into two sentences: "Hydration is the process.... . In order to hydrate Lit templates..."

Author: Done

```js
import {myTemplate} from './my-template.js';
import {render, hydrate} from `lit/experimental-hydrate.js`;

// Initial hydration required before render:
const initialData = /* should be same data used to render on the server */;
hydrate(myTemplate(initialData), document.body);

// After hydration, render will efficiently update the server-rendered DOM:
const update = (data) => render(myTemplate(data), document.body);
```

### Hydrating LitElements

> When `LitElement`s are server rendered, their shadow root contents are emitted inside a `<template shadowroot>`, also known as a [Declarative Shadow Root](https://web.dev/declarative-shadow-dom/), a new browesr feature that shipped in [Chrome 90](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-90/#declarative). Declarative shadow roots automatically attach their contents to a shadow root on the template's parent element when parsed. For browsers that do not yet implement declarative shadow root, there is a [`template-shadowroot`](https://github.com/webcomponents/template-shadowroot) ponyfill, described below.

Reviewer: I might remove the reference to Chrome 90

Author: Change it to just "shipping in Chrome"

> When `LitElement`s are server rendered, their shadow root contents are emitted inside a `<template shadowroot>`, also known as a [Declarative Shadow Root](https://web.dev/declarative-shadow-dom/), a new browesr feature that shipped in [Chrome 90](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-chrome-90/#declarative). Declarative shadow roots automatically attach their contents to a shadow root on the template's parent element when parsed. For browsers that do not yet implement declarative shadow root, there is a [`template-shadowroot`](https://github.com/webcomponents/template-shadowroot) ponyfill, described below.

Reviewer: I might remove the reference to Chrome 90

  [{some: "data"}]         // Arguments to function
) as Promise<Iterable<unknown>>);

// ...

context.body = Readable.from(ssrResult);
```

## Client usage

### Hydrating lit templates

In order to "hydrate" lit templates, which is the process of having lit re-associate the expressions of a lit template with which nodes they should update in the DOM, the `experimental-hydrate` module is provided in the `lit` package. Prior to updating a server-rendered container using `render`, you should first call `hydrate` on that container using the same template and data that was used to render on the server:

```js
import {myTemplate} from './my-template.js';
import {render, hydrate} from `lit/experimental-hydrate.js`;

// Initial hydration required before render:

> const initialData = /* should be same data used to render on the server */;

Author: We currently require hydrating with same data, because we don't dirty-check or re-set every attribute or textContent during hydration. That's a choice, but because we prime the dirty checking with the values from hydration, they must start off in sync with the DOM. We discussed perf testing and/or adding a switch to allow possibly different data (which would require at least a dirty check of all values during hydration), but that's not yet implemented.

Re: formatting, the idea was this is a top-level module that's loading and hydrating the page on module load, and providing an update function to update it in the future.

> const initialData = /* should be same data used to render on the server */;

Reviewer: Ah right, then change "should" to "must"

> const initialData = /* should be same data used to render on the server */;

Reviewer: As for formatting, I thought the statement was `initialData = hydrate(...)`. So maybe make an example data function:
```suggestion
/* must be same data used to render on the server */;
const initialData = getInitialAppData();
```

Because the `hydrate` function above does not descend into shadow roots, it only works on one scope of the DOM at a time. To hydrate `LitElement` shadow roots, load the `lit/hydrate-support.js` module, which installs support for `LitElement` automatically hydrating itself when it detects it was server-rendered with declarative shadow DOM. This module should be loaded before the `lit` module is loaded, to ensure hydration support is properly installed.

Put together, an HTML page that was server rendered and containing `LitElement`s in the main document might look like this:

```js
import {render} from '@lit-labs/ssr/lib/render-global.js';
import './app-components.js';

> const ssrResult = render(html`

Author: I think it's fine for now. In a _typical_ WC-based app, custom elements are the top-level template owners for dynamic content on the page, not _another_ top level non-component actor, so on the server the top-level template is static (or at least, not dynamic on the client; it might use data to render out meta tags or something that won't change on the client). 

I get that this poses a conundrum for e.g. light-dom server rendering because in even when using `renderLight` and the data is coming from a highlander custom element as in `<x-app>${renderLight()}</x-app>`, the directive is invoked by the outer template. But we can get into that once we flesh out those patterns.

Hydrating the top-level template (implying there is dynamic data on the client) also means we'd need to add the `defer-hydration` configurability, because in that case even top-level elements should be deferred. So let's plan on tackling that when we flesh out light-dom rendering examples.

I can add a note for now indicating the outer template in the example is not dynamic and need not be hydrated on the client, but that there are other patterns.

> const ssrResult = render(html`

Reviewer: A note's fine for now

> const ssrResult = render(html`

Author: Added note
